Reporting statements (1): that-clauses

When we report statements, we often use a that-c\ause in the reported clause (see Unit 43):  He said (that) he was enjoying his work.  My husband mentioned (that) he'd seen you the other day.  The members of the Security Council warned that further action may be taken.
After the more common reporting verbs such as agree, mention, notice, promise, say, think, we often leave out that, particularly in informal speech. However, it is less likely to be left out after less common reporting verbs such as complain, confide, deny, grumble, speculate, warn; and also in formal writing; and after the verbs answer, argue, reply. We are also more likely to include it if the that-c\a.usz doesn't immediately follow the verb. Compare:  She agreed (that) it would be safer to buy a car than a motorbike, and  She agreed with her parents and brothers that it would be safer to buy a car than a motorbike, (rather than ...and brothers it would be safer...)
Some reporting verbs which are followed by a rfwf-clause have an alternative with an object + to-infinitive (often to be), although the alternatives are often rather formal. Compare:  I felt that the results were satisfactory. or  I felt the results to be satisfactory.  They declared that the vote was invalid. or  They declared the vote to be invalid. Other verbs like this include acknowledge, assume, believe, consider, expect, find, presume, report, think, understand.
Study the following sentence:  I notified the bank that I had changed my address. If we use a that-c\a.use after the verb notify, then we must use an object ('the bank') between the verb and the that-c\ause, and this object can't be a prepositional object (see E below). So we can't say 'I notified that I ...' or T notified to the bank that I ...' Other verbs like this include assure, convince, inform, persuade, reassure, remind, tell. With advise, promise, show, teach, and warn, we sometimes put an object before a ^af-clause:  They promised (me) that they would come to the party.  A recent survey has shown (us) that Spain is the favourite destination for British holiday makers.
Study the following sentences:  She admitted (to me) that she was seriously ill.  We agreed (with Susan) that the information should go no further.  I begged (of him) that he should reconsider his decision. (Very formal; less formal would be 'I begged him to reconsider his decision.') After admit, agree and beg we can use a that-c\ax\st with or without an object ('me', 'Susan', 'him') before the that-c\a.me. However, if we do include an object, we put a preposition before it 'to', 'with', 'of'). This object is sometimes called a prepositional object.
Verbs with to + prepositional object: admit, announce, complain, confess, explain, indicate, mention, point out, propose, recommend, report, say, suggest Verbs with with + prepositional object: agree, argue, check, confirm, disagree, plead Verbs with of + prepositional object: ask, beg, demand, require
