Reporting statements (2). verb tense in that clauses

The tense we choose for a that-clause is one that is appropriate at the time that we are reporting what was said or thought. This means that we sometimes use a different tense in the that-clause from the one that was used in the original statement:  'Tim is much better.'  She said that Tim was much better.  'I'm planning to buy a new car.'  Ian told me that he was planning to buy a new car.  'I've never worked so hard before.' > Our decorator remarked that he had never worked so hard before. See Unit 46 for the choice of tense in the reporting clause.
When the situation described in the that-clause is a PERMANENT SITUATION, or still exists or is relevant at the time we are reporting it then we use a present tense (or present perfect) if we also use a present tense for the verb in the reporting clause:  Dr Weir thinks that he spends about 5 minutes on a typical consultation with a patient. (not ...spent about...)  Australian scientists claim that they have developed a way of producing more accurate weather forecasts, (not ...they developed...)  Jill says that Colin has been found safe and well, (not ...had been found...)
However, when we use a past tense in the reporting clause we can use either a present or past tense (or present perfect or past perfect) in the that-clause:  She argued that Carl is/was the best person for the job.  He said that he is/was living in Oslo.  I told Rosa that I don't/didn't like going to parties.  They noted that the rate of inflation has/had slowed down. Choosing a present tense (or present perfect) in the that-clause emphasises that the situation being reported still exists or is still relevant when we report it.
If we want to show we are not sure that what we are reporting is necessarily true, or that a situation may not still exist now, we prefer a past rather than a present tense:  Sarah told me that she has two houses. (= might suggest that this is the case)  Sarah told me that she had two houses. (= might suggest either that this is perhaps not true, or that she once had two houses but doesn't have two houses now)
When the situation described in the that-clause is in the past when we are reporting it, we use a past tense (simple past, past continuous, etc.):  'I don't want anything to eat.' * Mark said that he didn't want anything to eat.  'I'm leaving!'  Bob announced that he was leaving.  'The problem is being dealt with by the manager.'  She told me that the problem was being dealt with by the manager.
When the situation described in the that-clause was already in the past when it was spoken about originally, we usually use the past perfect to report it, although the past simple can often be used instead:  'I learnt how to eat with chopsticks when I was in Hong Kong.' -» Mary said that she had learnt/learnt how to eat with chopsticks when she was in Hong Kong.  T posted the card yesterday.' -* She reassured me that she had posted/posted the card.  'I've seen the film before.' -> She told me that she had seen the film before.  'I've been spending a lot more time with my children.' -» He mentioned that he had been spending a lot more time with his children.
