Reporting statements (3): verb tense in the reporting clause; say and tell; etc.

Verb tense in the reporting clause When we report something that was said or thought in the past, the verb in the reporting clause (see Unit 43 and Unit 45B) is often in a past tense:  Just before her wedding, she revealed that she had been married before.  I explained that my paintings were not for sale.
However, when we report current news, opinions, etc. we can use a present tense for the verb in the reporting clause. In some cases, either a present tense or past tense is possible:  The teacher says that about 10 children need special help with reading, {or ...said...) However, we prefer a present rather than a past tense to report information that we have heard, but don't know whether it is true or not: n  Ben tells me that you're moving back to Greece.   I hear you're unhappy with your job. (See also Unit 2D.) and also to report a general statement about what people say or think, or what is said by some authority:  Everyone says that it's quite safe to drink the water here.  Business people all over the country are telling the government that interest rates must be cut.  The law says that no-one under the age of 16 can buy a lottery ticket.
Other changes in reporting statements Remember that when we report speech in a different context from the one in which it was originally produced, we often need to change pronouns, references to time and place, and words such as this, that, these, as well as verb tense. Here are some examples:  'I've played before.' * She told him that she had played before.  'Jim's arriving later today.' —* She said that Jim was arriving later that day.  'I was sure I'd left it here.' -» He said that he was sure he'd left it there / on the table.  'I grew these carrots myself.' — He told me that he had grown those carrots himself.
Say and tell Say and tell are the verbs most commonly used to report statements. We use an object after tell, but not after say:  He told me that he was feeling ill. {not ...told that...)  She said that she would be late for the meeting, {not ...said me that...) However, we can use to + object after say, but not after tell:  I said to John that he had to work harder, {not ...told to John...)
oWe can report what topic was talked about using tell + object + about:   She told me about her holiday in Finland, {not ...said (me) about...)
Reporting statements with an -ing clause With the verbs admit, deny, mention, and report we can report a statement using an -ing clause:  He denied hearing the police warnings, {or He denied that he (had) heard...)  Toni mentioned meeting Emma at a conference in Spain, (or Toni mentioned that she (had) wflEmma...)
