heportmg oners, suggestions, oraers,
intentions, etc.
Verb + object + to-infinitive clause When we report offers, orders, intentions, promises, requests, etc., we can use a to-infinitive clause after the reporting clause. Some verbs are followed by an object + to-infinitive clause. The object usually refers to the person who the offer, etc., is made to:  'You should take the job, Frank.' -> She encouraged Frank to take the job.  'It must be a peaceful demonstration.' - Dr Barker called on the crowds to demonstrate peacefully. InOther verbs like this include advise, ask, command, compel, expect, instruct, invite, order, persuade, recommend, remind, request, tell, urge, warn.
Verb + to-infinitive clause Some verbs cannot be followed by an object before a to-infinitive clause:  'I'll take you to town.' -> She offered to take me to town, (not She offered me to take...)  'The theatre will be built next to the town hall.' -> They propose to build the theatre next to the town hall, (not They propose them to build...) Other verbs like this include agree, demand, guarantee, hope, promise, swear, threaten, volunteer, vow.
oAsk is used without an object when we ask someone's permission to allow us to do something:   I asked to see his identification before I let him into the house.
Verb + that-clause or verb + to-infinitive clause After some verbs we can use a that-c\a\xse instead of a to-infinitive clause:  He claimed to be innocent. or  He claimed that he was innocent. Verbs like this include agree, demand, expect, guarantee, hope, promise, propose, request, vow. (See also Unit 48.)
Verb + that-clause (notverb + to-infinitive clause) After verbs such as advise, insist, order, say and suggest we use a that-clause but not a toinfinitive clause. Notice that advise and order can be used with object + to-infinitive clause:  The team captain said that I had to play in goal, (not ...said to play...)  There were cheers when he suggested that we went home early, (not ...suggested to go...) However, notice that in informal spoken English we can use say with a to-infinitive clause:  Tim said to put the box on the table.
Verb + to-infinitive clause (/?ofverb + Maf-clause) After some verbs we use a to-infinitive but not a that-c\z\xst:  Carolyn intends to return to Dublin after a year in Canada, (not ...intends that...)  The children wanted to come with us to the cinema, (not ...wanted that...) Other verbs like this include long, offer, plan, refuse, volunteer.
When we report what someone has suggested doing, either what they should do themselves, or what someone else should do, we use a reporting clause with advise, propose, recommend, or suggest followed by an -ing clause:  The government proposed closing a number of primary schools.  The lecturer recommended reading a number of books before the exam.
