Should in that-clauses

We can sometimes report advice, orders, requests, suggestions, etc. about things that need to be done or are desirable using a that-dause with should + bare infinitive:  They have proposed that Jim should move to their London office.  Alice thinks that we should avoid driving through the centre of town.  I suggested that Mr Clarke should begin to look for another job.  It has been agreed that the company should not raise its prices.
After should we often use be + past participle or be + adjective:  They directed that the building should be pulled down.  The report recommends that the land should not be sold.  We urged that the students should be told immediately.  We insist that the money should be available to all students in financial difficulties.
In formal contexts, particularly in written English, we can often leave out should but keep the infinitive. An infinitive used in this way is sometimes called the subjunctive.  They directed that the building be pulled down.  We insist that the money be available to all students in financial difficulties.  It was agreed that the company not raise its prices.
In less formal contexts we can use ordinary tenses instead of the subjunctive. Compare:  They recommended that he should give up writing.  They recommended that he give up writing, (more formal)  They recommended that he gives up writing, (less formal) Notice also:  They recommended that he gave up writing. (= he gave it up)
Other verbs that are used in a reporting clause before a that-dause with should or the subjunctive include advise, ask, beg, command, demand, instruct, intend, order, request, require, stipulate, warn. Notice that we can also use that-dauses with should after reporting clauses with nouns related to these verbs:  The police gave an order that all weapons (should) be handed in immediately.  The weather forecast gave a warning that people (should) be prepared for heavy snow.
We can use should in a that-dause when we talk about our own reaction to something we are reporting, particularly after be + adjective (e.g. amazed, anxious, concerned, disappointed, surprised, upset):  I am concerned that she should think I stole the money. or  I am concerned that she thinks I stole the money, (not ...that she think I stole...) Notice that when we leave out should in sentences like this we use an ordinary tense, not an infinitive. There is usually very little difference in meaning between sentences like this with and without should. We leave out should in less formal contexts.
We can also use should or sometimes the subjunctive in a that-dause after it + be + adjective such as crucial, essential, imperative, important, (in)appropriate, (un)necessary, vital:  It is inappropriate they (should) be given the award again, (or ...they are given...)  It is important that she (should) understand what her decision means, (or ...she understands...)
