Modal verbs in reporting

When there is a modal verb in the original statement, suggestion, etc., this sometimes changes when we report what was said. The changes discussed in Unit 49 are summarised in this table:
modal verb in original
could, would, should, might, ought to, used to
will, can, may
shall
must (= necessary) must (= conclude) mustn't
modal verb in report
could, would, should, might, ought to, used to
would, could, might will, can, may (existing or future situations and present tense verb in reporting clause) will or would, can or could, may or might (existing or future situations and past tense verb in reporting clause)
would, should (offers, suggestions, etc.)
must or had to had to mustn't
I
We sometimes use a modal verb in a report when there is no modal verb in the original:  'You're not allowed to smoke here.' -* She told me that I mustn't smoke there.
The verbs could, would, should, might, ought to, and used to don't change in the report:  'I could meet you at the airport.' -* He said that he could meet us at the airport.  'We might drop in if we have time.' - They said they might drop in if they have time.
Will usually changes to would, can to could, and may to might. However, if the situation we are reporting still exists or is still in the future and the verb in the reporting clause is in a present tense, we prefer will, can, and may in the reported clause (see Unit 43). Compare:  'Careful! You'll fall through the ice!' -> I warned him he would fall through the ice. and  'I'll be in Paris at Christmas.' -> She tells me she'll be in Paris at Christmas. If the situation we are reporting still exists or is still in the future and the verb in the reporting clause is in a past tense, then we can use either would or will, can or could, and may or might in the reported clause:  'The problem can be solved.' - They said the problem can/could be solved.
When shall is used in the original to talk about the future, we use would in the report:  T shall (I'll) call you on Monday.' -> She told me she would call me on Monday. However, when shall is used in offers, requests for advice and confirmation, etc. then we can use should in the report, but not shall (see also Unit 25C):  'Where shall I put this box?' -> He asked where he should put the box.
When must is used in the original to say that it is necessary to do something, we can usually use either must or had to in the report, although must is less common:  'You must be home by 9 o'clock.' -» She said I must / had to be home by 9 o'clock. However, when must is used in the original to conclude that something (has) happened or that something is true, then we use must, not had to, in the report (see also Unit 23):  'I keep forgetting things. I must be getting old.' -* Neil said he must be getting old. If mustn't is used in the original, we can use mustn't in the report but not didn't have to:  'You mustn't tell my brother.' - He warned me that I mustn't tell his brother. 