Agreement between subject and verb (2)

With any of, each of, either of, neither of, or none of and a plural noun we can use a singular or plural verb. However, we prefer a singular verb in careful written English.
With a/the majority of, a number of, a lot of, plenty of, all (of), or some (of) and a plural noun we use a plural verb. But if we say the number of, we use a singular verb.
With any of, none of, the majority of, a lot of, plenty of, all (of), some (of) and an uncountable noun we use a singular verb.
With each and every and a singular noun we use a singular verb. (For each of, see above.)
With everyone, everybody, everything (and similar words beginning any-, some- and no-) we use a singular verb.
 I don't think any of them knows (or know) where the money is hidden.  Neither of the French athletes has (or have) won this year.
 A number of refugees have been turned back at the border.  The number of books in the library has risen to over five million.
 All the furniture was destroyed in the fire.
 Every room has its own bathroom, but  The boys have each drawn a picture.
 Practically everyone thinks that Judith should be given the job.
D Some phrases with a plural form are thought of as a single thing and have a singular verb. These include phrases referring to measurements, amounts and quantities: O  About three metres separates the runners in first and second places.   The fifty pounds he gave me was soon spent. When a subject has two or more items joined by and, we usually use a plural verb:  Jean and David are moving back to Australia. However, phrases connected by and can also be followed by singular verbs if we think of them as making up a single item:  Meat pie and peas is Tom's favourite at the moment, (or Meat pie and peas are...) Other phrases like this include fish and chips, and research and development (or R and D).
When a subject is made up of two or more items joined by (either) ...or... or (neither) ...nor... we use a singular verb if the last item is singular (although a plural verb is sometimes used in informal English), and a plural verb if it is plural:  Either the station or the cinema is a good place to meet, (or ...are... in informal English)  Neither the President nor his representatives are to attend the meeting. If the last item is singular and the previous item plural, we can use a singular or plural verb:  Either the teachers or the principal is (or are) to blame for the accident.
After per cent (also percent or %) we use a singular verb:  An inflation rate of only 2 per cent makes a big difference to exports.  Around 10 per cent of the forest is destroyed each year. However, in phrases where we can use of + plural noun we use a plural verb:  I would say that about 50 per cent of the houses need major repairs.  Of those interviewed, only 20 per cent (= of people interviewed) admit to smoking. But where we use a singular noun that can be thought of either as a whole unit or a collection of individuals, we can use a singular or plural verb (see also Unit 51B):  Some 80 per cent of the electorate is expected to vote, (or ...are expected...)