Compound nouns (2)

Sometimes a noun + noun is not appropriate and instead we use noun + 's + noun (possessive form) (see Unit 53) or noun + preposition + noun. In general, we prefer noun + 's + noun:  when the first noun is the user (a person or animal) or users of the item in the second noun:  a baby's bedroom a lion's den a women's clinic  when the item in the second noun is produced by the thing (often an animal) in the first:  goat's cheese duck's eggs cow's milk (Compare lamb chops, chicken drumsticks (= the lower part of a chicken's leg) when the animal is killed to produce the item referred to in the second noun.)  when we talk about parts of people or animals; but we usually use noun + noun to talk about parts of things. Compare:  a woman's face a boy's arm a whale's tail a giraffe's neck a pen top a computer keyboard the window frame
We prefer noun + preposition + noun:  when we talk about some kind of container together with its contents. Compare:  a cup of tea (= a cup with tea in it) and  a tea cup (= a cup for drinking tea from)  a box of matches (= a box with matches in) and  a matchbox (= a box made to put matches in)  when the combination of nouns does not necessarily refer to a well-known class of items. Compare:  a grammar book (a well-known class of books) but  a book about cats (rather than 'a cat book')  income tax (a recognised class of tax) but  a tax on children's clothes (rather than 'a children's clothes tax')
Some compound nouns are made up of nouns and prepositions or adverbs, and related to twoand three-word verbs (see Unit 114). Compare:  Mansen broke out of the prison by dressing as a woman. (= escaped) and There was a major break-out from the prison last night. (= prisoners escaped)  Everyone has put in a lot of effort to make the course successful, and Universities in Germany and Denmark will have an input into the project.  I lay down on the sofa and was soon asleep, and You look tired. Why don't you go and have a lie-down. a Countable compound nouns related to two- and three-word verbs have a plural form ending in -s:   read-out(s) push-up(s) intake(s) outcome(s) However, there are exceptions. For example:  looker(s)-on (or onlooker(s)) runner(s)-up passer(s)-by hanger(s)-on
We can form other kinds of hyphenated phrases that are placed before nouns to say more precisely what the noun refers to:  a state-of-the-art (= very modern) computer day-to-day (= regular) control a head-in-the-sand attitude (= refusing to think about unpleasant facts) a four-wheel-drive vehicle (= one in which the engine provides power to all four wheels so that it can go over rough ground easily) a security-card-operated door
