The, zero article and a/an: things in general'

In generalisations we use zero article, but not the, with plural or uncountable nouns:  Before you put them on, always check your shoes for spiders.  I'm studying geography at university.  I can smell smoke! When we use the with a plural or uncountable noun, we are talking about specific things or people:  The books you ordered have arrived.  All the information you asked for is in this file of papers.
Compare these pairs of sentences:  Flowers really brighten up a room. (= flowers in general) and  The flowers you bought me are lovely. (= particular flowers)  Industry is using computers more and more. (= industry in general) and  The tourism industry is booming in Malaysia. (= a particular industry)  Children should be given a sense of how business works. (= business in general) and  The aerospace business actually lost $6 billion this year. (= a particular business)  She's an expert on Swedish geology. (= among other Swedish things) and  She's an expert on the geology of Sweden. (= specifically of Sweden) (see also Unit 58D)
We can use the with a singular countable noun to talk about the general features or characteristics of a class of things or people rather than one specific thing or person. In  Nowadays, photocopiers are found in both the office and the home. we are talking about offices and homes in general rather than a particular office and home. Notice that we could also say 'in both offices and homes' with little difference in meaning. Compare the use of the and a/an in these sentences:
talking about a general class
The novel is the most popular form of fiction writing, (or Novels are...)
The customer has a right to know where products are made, (or Customers have...)
talking about an unspecified example
Reading a novel is a good way to relax. (or Reading novels is...)
When the phone rang, I was busy serving a customer.
Study the use of the and a/an in these sentences:
/the statement is ^ about computers \in general J
The computer has revolutionised publishing. ^
A computer has revolutionised publishing. X
computers in general have done this, not an individual computer
The computer is an important research tool. ^
this is true of both the jand the
A computer is an important research tool. 
(individual item]
Notice that when we define something we generally use a/an rather than the:  A Geiger counter is a device for detecting and measuring the intensity of radiation.  A corkscrew is a gadget for getting corks out of bottles.