Cooking Instructions

The following verbs frequently appear when reading the cooking instructions in recipes.

add: To put ingredients together; to put one ingredient with the others.

bake: To cook in an oven by using heat.

barbecue: To cook foods (primarily meat) on a grill by using fire or hot coals.

beat: To mix quickly and continually, commonly used with eggs.

boil: To heat water until little bubbles form.

break: To separate into smaller parts by force.

broil: To cook meat or vegetables on a rack with an extremely high temperature.

carve: To cut meat into slices.

chop: To cut into small pieces, generally used with vegetables.

combine: To put two or more things together.

cook: To prepare food by heating it, so the food is not raw.

crush: To cause to separate or flatten by extreme force, often used with garlic.

cut: To separate or divide by using a knife.

fry: To cook by putting the food into extremely hot oil.

grate: To divide into small parts by rubbing on a serrated surface, usually used with cheese.

grease: To coat with oil or butter.

grill: To cook by putting the food on a grill; similar to barbecue.

knead: To press and stretch dough, usually used with making bread.

mix: To combine two or more things using a spoon, spatula, or electric mixer.

measure: To obtain an exact quantity.

melt: to make something become liquid through heating.

microwave: To heat up food within a microwave oven.

mince: to grind food, normally meat, into small pieces. A machine is often used to do this.

open: To remove the top from a can or jar.

peel: To take the skin off of fruits or vegetables.

pour: To transfer liquid from one container to another.

put: To place something in a particular position or location.

roast: To cook in the oven or over a fire.

sauté: To quickly fry food by placing it in hot oil in a frying pan.

scramble: To mix the white and yellow parts of eggs together while cooking them in a pan.

slice: To cut into thin, wide portions.

steam: To cook by placing the food above boiling water. Steam is the vapor that comes from hot water

stir: To mix liquid ingredients by moving a spoon around in a circular motion

stir fry: To cook small pieces of food by moving it quickly in hot oil

wash: To immerse food in water and make sure it becomes clean

weigh: To measure the weight (grams or pounds) or something