Feelings and Emotions

Every morning, Sam is so enthusiastic to begin his day that he jumps out of bed and begins to sing.

His mother became worried when she didn't hear from him for two days.

David is quite shy so he doesn't like talking to people he doesn't know.

A year after being fired from his job, Alan is still very bitter. He has a lot of resentment towards his former boss.

Even though I am accustomed to traveling for business, I still get homesick if I am away from my home for more than a week.

Katie feels threatened every time her boyfriend talks to another girl. She thinks that every girl wants to steal him.

In the U.S., Thanksgiving is a holiday in which people give thanks for the blessings they have. Before the Thanksgiving meal, family members will say what they are thankful for.

I am absolutely furious!! I cannot believe that my dog chewed my favorite shoes. Now they're ruined!

Cats are so curious that they often get into trouble. Once, my cat fell into the bath tub because she wanted to know what was inside!

When Dave found out that the plumber charged him double the normal amount to fix his toilet, he felt cheated.

After his grandmother passed away, Ken was so grief-stricken he couldn't get out of bed.

When Emily has a lot of work to do and feels stressed, she becomes very tense and cannot relax.

Our friend Lily makes us feel left out when she has a party but doesn't invite us.

Even in hard times when I don't have a lot of money, I stay hopeful and believe that next month will be better.

My aunts enjoy inviting me to their romance book club. I always feel trapped because I don't want to hurt their feelings by saying no, but I also don't want to go and listen to sixty-year old women talk about romance.

As a teenager, Alexandra liked to be rebellious and defy her parents. She used to sneak out of the house after her parents fell asleep to go to parties.

When I see that puzzled look on your face, I know that you didn't understand my question.

Mr. and Mrs. Porter are very cautious about answering their door. If they are not expecting a visitor, they won't open the door.

Wow! I'm really impressed that Ashley can speak 7 languages, whereas I only speak one!

Ugh! I don't have anything to do. I'm so bored!!

It's difficult to not become discouraged while looking for a job, especially when you hand out your resume to employers and no one calls you.

After Kylie had her heart broken by her ex-boyfriend, she felt so down and blue. I tried to cheer her up, but she just wants to be sad for awhile.