Health Problems

The most common ways to ask about someone's health are:

How do you feel (today)?
How are you feeling?
Is everything okay?
They will most likely respond:

I'm fine.
I feel sick.
Not so good.
Not very well.
I don't feel well.
I'm sick.
When you see (or hear) that they are not well, then you can ask:

What's the matter?
What's wrong?
If the person wants to say what is wrong, they may give the reason they feel that way:

I have ... (+ health condition)
I've got ... (+ health condition)
I have a headache
I've got a sore throat.

ESL List of Health Problems
The following is a list of common health problems (ailments and illnesses) with the definition of each word or expression:

asthma: a respiratory condition where spasms in the lungs cause difficult in breathing. An asthmatic uses an inhaler to calm the spasms.

a backache: a prolonged pain in the back.

a broken leg: when a bone in the leg is broken. A broken leg is put in a cast to help immobilize the leg so that it heals quicker. Other parts of the body with bones can also be broken, for example a broken arm, a broken wrist etc.

a cold: a common viral infection which causes mucous to run from the nose, gives a sore throat and often includes sneezing.

a cough: the act of expelling air from the lungs with a sudden sharp sound.

an earache: pain inside the ear.

a fever: an abnormally high body temperature, usually accompanied by shivering and a headache.

the flu: flu is the common name given for influenza. It is a contagious viral infection of the respiratory passages that causes fever and sever aching.

a headache: a continuous pain in the head.

heartburn: a form of indigestion felt as a burning sensation in the chest. It is caused by acid regurgitation into the esophagus.

(the) measles: an infectious viral disease causing fever and a red rash on the skin. It typically occurs in childhood.

a rash: a lot of small red spots on the skin that are usually itchy.

a sore throat: a condition of pain in the throat, typically caused by inflammation of it.

a stomachache (US) - stomach ache (Brit): The pain in a person's belly. Notice how the word can be spelled together or as two words, depending on the country.

sunburn: when the skin becomes red with inflammation as a result of overexposure to the ultraviolet rays of the sun.

a toothache: the pain in a tooth or teeth.

