Office Equipment

Tape (dispenser)
Paper clip holder
Ruler
Paper clips
Pushpins
Bulldog clip
Scissors
Correction Fluid (white-out)
Pencil sharpener
Calculator
Stapler
Staples
Pen
Pencil
Eraser (= rubber)
Highlighter
Hole-punch
Rubber bands (elastic bands)
A paper clip is a small piece of wire that holds pieces of paper together. A bulldog clip is bigger and works better when you have to keep large amounts of paper together.

Some people have paper clip holders that are small transparent boxes with a magnet rim with an opening at the top on them. This was if you drop all the paperclips it is easy to pick them back up with the magnet.

A paper clip keeps papers together temporarily, but if you want to do it permanently you should use a stapler. In fact a stapler works so well that to disconnect the papers you need another special tool called a stapler remover.

When you need to cut paper or other objects you should use scissors. They safely cut paper and are easy to use.

A calculator is a small electronic device that helps you to solve math problems.

Business cards are small pieces of card with your name and contact information written on them. You carry the cards around so that you can give them to different people, especially at meetings.

A calendar has all the days of the month in it so that you know what day it is today. Many people keep desk calendars on the top of their desk so that they can always see their schedule and so that they won't forget different meetings and events. An organizer is a small book that you keep that allows you to keep task of everything. Inside of it there is normally a calendar filled with your schedule, as well as other important information that you need, including contact numbers for other people. It is also called an appointment book or personal planner.

Rather than carry it with you or have it on the top of your desk some people prefer to have a wall planner hanging beside the desk which shows all the days of year at a time.

When you make a mistake with a pen you need to use correction fluid or white out to cover the mistake. It is a liquid that you can put on paper to cover a mistake and then you can write over it again. However if you are writing with a pencil you can use a rubber or an eraser to make the mistake go away.

When reading through long documents or studying, it is a good idea to use a highlighter in order to put the important facts in a bright colour.

Carbon paper is a type of blue paper that you put between two pieces of normal paper. When you write on the top sheet of paper, it will make a copy of what you wrote on the bottom sheet of paper.

A clip board is a small piece of wood (or plastic) with a clip at the top so that you can attach the paper to it and write while standing.

A desk lamp is a special lamp that sits on top of a desk and directs the light downward on to the paper you are writing.

A computer is normally the most important tool in an office. Many people type all of their important information into it. The monitor of the computer is the part that has a screen on it, like a television so that you can see all of the information. Many monitors today are flat screen ones. A laptop is a type of portable computer that is smaller and can be carried and used in different places. Now with new technology many people use WIFI to connect to the internet without cords. They can take their laptops anywhere and work outside of the office. Before people had computers they used to use electric typewriters, and before that they used normal typewriters.