Personality Types

Everyone's different and there are many words to describe people - some nice and some not so nice! Here's some vocabulary you can use:

Intelligent: Brainy, Genius, Clever, Bright, Know-it-all (noun), Gifted

Brian thought he was a genius after he completed the Sunday Crossword.
My friend at English class always gets every question correct - she's such a know-it-all.
Stupid: Thick, Crazy, Silly, Idiot (noun), Dumb

"Shut up you dumb idiot!" My teacher yelled when I got the question wrong.
Some people think that blonde women are a bit stupid.
Funny: Witty, Hilarious, Humorous, Amusing, Comical, Droll

When James gets drunk he thinks he's hilarious.
I watched 'The American Office' the other day - Steve Carrell is very amusing.
Dull:	Dry, Tedious, Boring, Dreary, Unexciting, Uninteresting

I really like Bob, but, he's a bit dreary.
That man is the dullest and most tedious person I have ever met!
Confident: Outgoing, Extroverted, Sure, Certain

The salesman was very extroverted, and a little pushy.
Albert became a very sure and certain person after he won his Nobel prize.
Shy: Timid, Reserved, Introverted, Bashful, Inhibited, Withdrawn

After Albert had his Nobel Prize taken away for copying most of his research from Wikipedia, he became very introverted.
Sheila's very shy - until she's drunk!
Friendly: Welcoming, Affable, Sociable, Pleasant, Extroverted, Gracious

The barman was very welcoming towards us, until I told him I don't drink.
Politicians like to come across as very gracious and pleasant people.
Unfriendly: Mean, Surly, Aloof, Distant, Cold, Frosty

My Dad was very cold towards my sister's new boyfriend.
I didn't like him at all. He came across as very aloof.
Hardworking: Diligent, Determined, Meticulous, Thorough

I like my new colleague; he's very hardworking and careful in his work.
I hope that our new Health and Safety officer is diligent - three people have died here in the last month!
Lazy: Idle, Sluggish, Slothful, Indolent

"Fire him," my boss said, "he's too lazy."
I went into work the other day when I was very hungover. I was a bit sluggish.
Arrogant: Vain, Big-headed, Conceited, Egotistical, Proud, Overconfident

Apparently Victora Beckham is very conceited.
Colonel Gaddafi is a cruel and arrogant man.
Humble: Modest, Unassuming, Meek

After he lost his job twice he became very humble about his abilities.
I don't think I'm a modest person. In fact, I think I'm amazing.