Australia

Australia is an island nation that consists of six states and two territories. The style of government is a constitutional monarchy and the Queen of England is the head of the constitutional monarchy. The Governor General is the Queen's representative in Australia, but in reality only acts in a watchdog capacity. The country is actually governed by a Prime Minister.

The reason that the kangaroo and the emu appear on the coat of arms is that they are the only two animals in Australia that can't take a backward step. They therefore symbolise the fact that Australia is always advancing.

Australian Words
Arvo - is the Australian abbreviation for afternoon.

Esky - refers to a container that is used to keep drinks or something cold. Frequently used when you go to a BBQ or a party. (Also known as a cooler in USA)

Footy - is the abbreviation for football. In Australia it doesn't refer to soccer but to Australian Rules Football or Rugby League.

G'day - (= Good day) this is the common greeting when you meet someone that you know.

Mate - is the Australian word we use for 'friend'. It is usually used to refer to male friends and not female friends.

Onya - Well done.

A cold one - is the slang term for a beer.

Cuppa - refers to a cup of tea.

Typical things of Australia
Australian Icons
Sydney Harbour Bridge - is the famous bridge that appears in most photos of Sydney. It joins the northern and the southern parts of the city. It is world famous for the fireworks every New Year's Eve.

Sydney Opera House - is a theatre that was constructed by a Danish man - Jan Utzon. It has a brilliant view of Sydney Harbour. It is possible to see all types of performances at The Opera House - from rock concerts to operas.

Uluru - is the largest monolith in the world. It is located in the desert in the centre of Australia. It is owned by the Aboriginal people (the native inhabitants of Australia) and considered to be a very sacred site for them.

The Great Barrier Reef - is one of the natural wonders of the world. It is located off the north-east coast of Australia. It is a coral reef that measures 2,600 kms. The astronauts are able to see The Great Barrier Reef from space.