Phrasal Verbs with GET

Below we have a list of Phrasal verbs that begin with GET and then an explanation of each one with some examples

Get across
Get along / Get on with
Get around
Get at
Get away
Get down
Get down to
Get on
Get out of
Get over
This is not a complete list. We will add more Phrasal Verbs with GET when we can.


Get across
= to communicate.

= to make someone understand something. (Especially if the details are too difficult to understand or if the person being explained to understands poorly).

Although I couldn't speak the language, I managed to get my meaning across when necessary.
Your meaning didn't really get across.
He's not very good at getting his idea across.

Get along - Get on with
= to have a good / friendly relationship with someone.

(get on is used more in Britain)

Even though there are six of them sharing the house, they all get on well with each other.
He doesn't get along well with his mother-in-law.
Our new boss is very easy to get on with.

Get around
1. = to become known. To spread or to circulate. If news or information gets around, people tell other people, so that soon many people know about it.

It's a small place, so news and gossip get around pretty quickly.
The news of his arrest got around quickly.
News soon got around that Matthew was back in town.
2. = to find a way of avoiding a difficult or unpleasant situation, so that you don't have to deal with it.

There is no way of getting around it - you are going to have to tell her the truth.
Isn't there any way of getting around the regulations?

Get at
1. = to reach, to access to something.

The cupboard is too high for me to get at.
The report is locked in the cabinet and I can't get at them.
2. = to suggest something indirectly, to imply. (used only in the continuous tense)

What exactly are you getting at? (=trying to say, suggest)

Get away
1. = to go away from someone or something

Get away from me!
Get away from that cake!
It was so busy that Francisca couldn't get away from the phone all day.
2. = to escape from someone who is chasing you.

They tried to get away from the police but they weren't quick enough.
3. = to have a holiday.

We hope to get away for a couple of weeks around Christmas.

Get down
1. = to cause someone to be depressed.

This weather is getting me down
Don't let these problems get you down too much.

Get down to
1. = to reach the point of dealing with something.

2. = to begin to work on something seriously. To give serious attention to something.

3. = to finally start doing something, after you have been avoiding it or after something has prevented you from doing it.

Now, let's get down to business
It's time I got down to some serious work.
Once it is Summer, we will get down to painting the house.
 
Get on
1. = to put yourself on or in something

I get on the bus at 8am every morning.
We got on the train just before it left.
2. = to remind someone to do something; to continue

Your story is taking all day. Get on with it!

Get out of
1. = to avoid something

He always tells his parents he has homework to get out of doing the dishes.
She was lucky to get out of that dangerous situation.
2. = to physically remove yourself from somewhere or something

I got out of bed as soon as my alarm went off.
The police officer told me to get out of the car.
 

Get over
1. = to recover from something or return to your usual state of health or happiness.

I thought he would never get over her illness.
It took her a long time to get over their separation.
He never got over the shock of losing his wife.
2. = to overcome or deal with or gain control of something.

She can't get over her shyness.

Can't get over
1. = to be amazed or surprised by something.

I can't get over how much your kids have grown.
