Phrasal Verbs with MAKE

Below we have a list of Phrasal verbs that begin with MAKE and then an explanation of each one with some examples.

Make for (something)
Make (sb/st) into (sb/st)
Make of
Make off
Make off with
Make out
Make (something) out
Make (something) out to be
Make (somebody) out
Make up
Make up for
This is not a complete list. We will add more Phrasal Verbs with MAKE when we can.


Make for (Something)
1. = to move towards something or a place

Make for the hills, a tsunami is approaching!
He made for his apartment a couple of hours ago.
2. = to contribute to, lead to or cause a result or situation.

Shakespeare's writing makes for a difficult read.
His gift of $1,000 will certainly make for a happy birthday.
Both candidates are popular so it should make for an interesting election.

Make (somebody/something) into (somebody/something)
1. = to convert one thing into another thing

His parents made his bedroom into a billiards room once he moved out.
His father said that joining the army would make him into a real man, but he was wrong.

Make (something) out
1. = to just be able to hear, read or see something

He spoke so quietly we could hardly make out what he was saying.
If you can make out the billboard from such a distance you really have excellent vision.
2. = to fill out the details of a document (usually a check)

You can make out the cheque to Woodward Ltd.

Make (something) out to be
1. = to claim; to assert

He makes himself out to be an important artist but his paintings are utter garbage.
I think the critics make that movie out to be more profound than it really is.

Make of
1. = to try to understand and find a reason for something

I don't know what to make of her suddenly unfriendly attitude towards me.
Can you make anything of these ruins?
2. = to think and have an opinion about something

What do you make of the new policy the president signed?

Make off
1. = To hurry away, especially in order to escape

The thieves had to make off in their car when the police arrived.
The pop star made off from the concert before the fans could find him.

Make off with
1. = To steal something and (quickly) take it away.

The looters made off with all the laptops that were in the computer store.

Make out
1. = Manage; fare; deal with. Usually used informally in a question after "How...?"

How did you make out yesterday on the biology test?
How is she making out with the recent death of her mother?
2. = slang for to kiss and grope, though not to have sex.

We were making out in the gym and got caught by the teacher

Make (somebody) out
1. = To understand a person's character

Since she is normally quiet and reserved it is hard to make her out.

Make (something) over to (somebody)
1. = Transfer ownership

The government of Mugabe made all the lands of the whites over to black African farmers.

Make up
1. = the composition of something

The committee was made up of all the regional managers.
2. = combination of qualities that form a part of someone's character

Flexibility and integrity are key elements of her make up.
He is made up of old fashioned values.
3. = to apply make up, rouge, powder, eyeliner, etc. Also to make somebody up

The actors must make themselves up before going on stage.
The stylist made up her eyes that they looked huge for the party.
4. = to invent a story, usually to deceive or entertain

My four year old niece is always making up stories, last week she told me that she and her friends flew to the moon.
He always makes up wonderful fairytales about distant lands for the children before they go to sleep.
5. = To form or constitute something

It's an interesting neighbourhood because it's made up of an eclectic mix of people from all over the world.
The class is made up of three sections of conversation and two sections of written exercises.
6. = a required number or an amount to complete something

We need two more people to make up a football team.
7. = To prepare a bed (or something) for use

The room is tidy, I just have to make up the bed for you.
8. = To put something together from many different things

Let's make up an Easter basket for your nephew.
9. = To become friendly with someone again, usually after an argument or fight.

After three years without talking to each other, they finally made up.

Make up for
1. = the compensate for something; to replace something lost

I know I ruined your favourite dress but I hope this new one I bought you makes up for it.
What she lacked in experience, she made up for in the way she learns quickly.
She spend two weeks with her family to make up for her year long absence.
Hopefully insurance will make up for the damages from the fire.

This is not the complete list. We will add more Phrasal Verbs with MAKE when we can.