Phrasal Verbs with PUT

Below we have a list of Phrasal verbs that begin with PUT and then an explanation of each one with some examples.

Put aside
Put away
Put off
Put out
Put through
Put up
Put up with
This is not a complete list. We will add more Phrasal Verbs with PUT when we can.


Put Aside
(to put something aside)

1. = to save (especially money/time)

We have to put some money aside for our holiday.
2. = to reserve something for a customer to collect later.

Don't worry, we will put it aside for you until you come back tomorrow.
3. = to ignore or forget something.

They decided to put aside their differences.
Put away
(to put something away)

1. = to store, to tidy. to put something in a box, drawer etc because you have finished using it.

Please put your toys away now children.
I'm going to put the car away. (= in the garage).
2. = to save money to spend later.

He put some money away every month for his retirement.
3. = to put somebody into prison. (informal)

He was put away for 15 years for armed robbery.

Put off
(to put something off)

1. = to postpone. To leave or delay something for another time in the future.

2. = to decide to do something later than when you planned to do it.

They put off the meeting until next Friday.
We can't put his off until tomorrow. It needs to be ready today.
I really should go to the dentist but I keep putting it off.

Put out
1. (to put something out) = to extinguish, to stop something from burning.

The firemen managed to put out the fire very quickly.
He put out his cigarette before getting on the bus.

Put through
1. (to put someone through) = to connect somebody by telephone.

Could you put me through to the manager please?
2. (to put someone through something) = to make someone experience something very difficult or unpleasant.

You have put your family through a lot recently. (= you have made them suffer)
The applicants were put through an exhausting set of tests.

Put up
1. (to put somebody up) = provide food and accommodation for someone in your home.

Don't worry, we can put you up for the night.
My sister will put me up while I am in Auckland.

Put up with
1. = to tolerate. (to tolerate is more formal than to put up with)

2. = to accept an annoying situation or behaviour.

I can't put with the noise any more. (=I can't tolerate the noise any more)
We had to put up with their children when they visited us. (because they were very disruptive and naughty)

This is not a complete list. We will add more Phrasal Verbs with PUT when we can.